---
title: "DDOS transfer to ADFS"
categories:
  - data transfer
tags:
  - floppy discs
  - TreeCopy
  - MDFS.net
  - Opus DDOS
---

I then dug around the utilities I'd found when hunting for a Tape2Disc utility, opting in the end for J.G.Harston's [TreeCopy](https://mdfs.net/Software/FileTools/).

Now, there's a slight challenge with an Opus Challenger - if you enter `*DISC`, that will select Acorn's `DFS` - not the Opus! So you need to disable the Acorn ROM with `*UNPLUG <ROM number>` - which can be found with `*ROMS`.

With that complete, `*DISC` selected the Opus DDOS again, and I was back in business. I could then select "DISC", using "$" as the root directory, and then "ADFS" on ther GoTEK (after selecting an appropriate disc image).

Met with some success - certainly POC - like the way `TreeCopy` loads as much in to RAM as it can before switching file systems, then saving - neat. Issues I found were:
1. Opus DDOS splits each surface into multiple volumes - side "A" and "B" are (as per Acorn DFS) drives 0 and 2, but DDOS then splits each sie into sub-volumes (which you can define, and allocate space) to 0A, 0B, .., 0H and 2A, 2B, .. etc.
2. I had filenames with "." in them - which ADFS assumes is a folder; either rename "e.file.1" to "e.file-1" or create a folder "e.file" and saves a file "1" in the folder

As a work-around, I just manually `*DRIVE 0B`, created any required folders (such as `e.file`) and then ran `TreeCopy`, which worked well.

A mission for later is to patch TreeCopy for Opus DDOS transfer (too many discs to want to do this manually each time!), but it's a very useful utility.

So, I've got a working transfer process. Next mission: build a web site to hold this blog!